# IRIS Hub Upgrade v0.16.0

## What did we do in v0.16

To support `DeFi` functionalities, we introduced the [HTLC](https://www.irisnet.org/docs/features/htlc.html) and [Coin Swap](https://www.irisnet.org/docs/features/coinswap.html) modules in v0.16, so that users can swap tokens between different blockchains and trade them in a decentralized manner.

Besides, since the block data gets bigger and bigger, making it more and more difficult to backup or to sync from scratch. Starting from v0.16, some of the IRISHub nodes (such as sentries, seeds) will no longer need to retain all historical data. This will be done by the [Snapshot](https://www.irisnet.org/docs/daemon/snapshot.html).

- You can choose to drop the data of a node which before a certain block height to free up disk space.
- You can quickly start up a new node without syncing all the historical data.

Also we have done some bug fixes, dependency upgrade and so on. For details, please refer to: [[CHANGELOG](https://github.com/irisnet/irishub/blob/v0.16.0/CHANGELOG.md#0160)]

## Upgrade Proposal

We are prepared to upgrade the IRIS Hub based upon

- Version: `v0.16.0`
- Commit hash: `225f0dd666477296797cae7db99fad52d10908ee`;
- Version switch at Block Height `3447000`;

## Upgrade Process

### 1. Vote

We will propose an **Upgrade Proposal** on the mainnet, stating the version number of the new software and which height of the blockchain to switch version automatically. When the proposal enters the voting stage, everyone can vote according to their own wishes. Of course, we strongly recommend that you vote in favor :-)

Vote command:

```bash
iriscli gov vote --proposal-id=6 --option=Yes --chain-id=irishub --fee=0.3iris --from=<key-name>
```

### 2. Upgrade Nodes

If the  **Upgrade Proposal**  is successfully passed, we will promptly notify you to upgrade through QQ, Riot, Telegram and other channels.

**Note: All nodes have to be upgraded, whether it is a validator node, a seed node or a full node.**

The specific steps are as follows:

```bash
# 1. Compile and install the new version
git clone --branch v0.16.0 https://github.com/irisnet/irishub
cd irishub && make get_tools install

# 2. Check the version number
iris version
0.16.0-225f0dd6-2-mainnet

# 3. Close the old software
kill -9 <iris-pid>

# 4. Restart
iris start --home=<path-to-your-home>
```

### 3. Version Switching

When the height of blockchain reaches the height specified by the upgrade proposal, the nodes will automatically check whether the total voting power of the validators who has upgraded has reached the threshold. If so, the nodes will automatically switch its software to the new version.

Check whether the upgrade is successful after version switching:

```bash
iriscli upgrade info --trust-node
```

## FAQ

### The threshold of the upgrade proposal?

- Participation: 50 %
- Pass threshold: 75 %

In other words, during the 5-day voting period, at least 50% of Voting Power's validators in the entire network are required to vote, and 75% of them voted in favor.

### What if a node does not upgrade before the version switch height?

When the height of the blockchain reaches the height specified by the upgrade proposal, the node will automatically check whether the total voting power of the validators who has upgraded has reached the threshold.

**If Yes**, the upgraded nodes will automatically switch its software to the new version, and the node without upgrading will be forced to go offline.

Recovery steps for forced offline nodes:

```bash
# 1. Compile and install the new version
git clone --branch v0.16.0 https://github.com/irisnet/irishub
cd irishub && make get_tools install

# 2. Check the version number
iris version
0.16.0-225f0dd6-2-mainnet

# 3. Close the old software
kill -9 <iris-pid>

# 4. Restart
iris start --home=<path-to-your-home>

# 5. Query whether the node is upgraded successfully.
iriscli upgrade info --trust-node
```

**If No**, then all nodes will continue to run using the old version of the logic, indicating that this upgrade failed.

**Even if the upgrade fails, it will not affect the blockchain, just the blockchain does not have the new features of the new version.**

However, for the client team (exchanges, browsers, wallets), we still recommend that if the mainnet upgrade fails, it is best to return the Nodes, CLI and LCD used by the application layer to the old version to avoid the new version client connects the old version node will be incompatible.

Of course, this situation is what we do not expect to see, so we hope that everyone will actively participate in the construction of the IRIS ecosystem!

### About the Snapshot

### What if every node in the network runs from a snapshot and a new node tries to catch up from genesis

If that happens, a new node will be unable to sync from scratch, but it can use a snapshot to catch up faster.

Presumably not all nodes will delete historical data, such as nodes for explorers and wallets. And we, the IRIS Foundation will keep all the data too, also we can offer a full data snapshot. And we encourage snapshot service providers could provide both the minimal and the full snapshot :)

### But this will have a slow speed of download probably

Correct, but most people don't need the full data, they can download a latest snapshot to sync up much faster than before. If they want, they can also download the full data snapshot too.

### Can I snapshot the validator node

Yes, but we wouldn't recommend that for the time being.
