# IRIS Hub Upgrade v1.2.1

## Upgrade Proposal

We are prepared to upgrade the IRIS Hub based upon

- Version: `v1.2.1`
- Commit hash: `65140224a90e294ed91df087de4d1d22916de282`
- Patch will execute at Block Height `12636666`, please upgrade your nodes **BEFORE HEIGHT 12636666**

## Upgrade Process

Note: All nodes have to be upgraded **BEFORE HEIGHT 12636666**, whether it is a validator node, a seed node or a full node.

The specific steps are as follows:

```bash
# 1. Compile and install the new version, go 1.16+ is required
git clone https://github.com/irisnet/irishub
cd irishub && git checkout v1.2.1
make install

# 2. Check the version number
iris version --long
name: iris
server_name: iris
version: 1.2.1
commit: 65140224a90e294ed91df087de4d1d22916de282
build_tags: netgo,ledger
go: go version go1.16 darwin/amd64

# 3. Close the old software
kill -9 <iris-pid>

# 4. Restart
iris start --home=<path-to-your-home>
```

## After Patch Height

When the patch height is reached:

- If the Voting Power of all upgraded validator nodes is greater than 67%, the network will activate the bug fix to execute IBC Tx's correctly. Relayers can then complete the previously pending IBC Txs. Nodes still running v1.2.0 need to be upgraded to v1.2.1 now and restarted with a snapshot generated after the patch height (snapshot URL will be published after the patch height is reached).
- If the Voting Power of all upgraded validator nodes is greater than 33% and less than 67%, the network will halt. Nodes still running v1.2.0 need to be upgraded to v1.2.1 now and restarted with a snapshot generated **before** the patch height (snapshot URL will be published later).
- If the Voting Power of all upgraded validator nodes is less than 33%, the patch upgrade will have failed but the network will continue generating blocks (without the bug fix). Nodes already running v1.2.1 have to be rolled back to v1.2.0 and restarted with a snapshot generated after the patch height (snapshot URL will be published after the patch height is reached).
