# IRIS Hub Upgrade v3.1.0

## This is a coordinated upgrade. IT IS CONSENSUS BREAKING, so please apply the fix only on height 25351000

### Release Details

* <https://github.com/irisnet/irishub/releases/tag/v3.1.0>
* Chain upgrade height : `25351000`. Exact upgrade time can be checked [here](https://www.mintscan.io/iris/block/25351000).
* Go version has been frozen at `1.21`. If you are going to build `iris` binary from source, make sure you are using the right GO version!

## Performing the co-ordinated upgrade

This co-ordinated upgrades requires validators to stop their validators at `halt-height`, switch their binary to `v3.1.0` and restart their nodes with the new version.

The exact sequence of steps depends on your configuration. Please take care to modify your configuration appropriately if your setup is not included in the instructions.

## Manual steps

## Step 1: Configure `halt-height` using v3.1.0 and restart the node

This upgrade requires `iris` halting execution at a pre-selected `halt-height`. Failing to stop at `halt-height` may cause a consensus failure during chain execution at a later time.

There are two mutually exclusive options for this stage:

### Option 1: Set the halt height by modifying `app.toml`

* Stop the iris process.

* Edit the application configuration file at `~/.iris/config/app.toml` so that `halt-height` reflects the upgrade plan:

```toml
# Note: Commitment of state will be attempted on the corresponding block.
halt-height = 25351000
```

* restart iris process

* Wait for the upgrade height and confirm that the node has halted

### Option 2: Restart the `iris` binary with command line flags

* Stop the iris process.

* Do not modify `app.toml`. Restart the `iris` process with the flag `--halt-height`:

```shell
iris start --halt-height 25351000
```

* Wait for the upgrade height and confirm that the node has halted

Upon reaching the `halt-height` you need to replace the `v3.0.0` iris binary with the new `iris v3.1.0` binary and remove the `halt-height` constraint.
Depending on your setup, you may need to set `halt-height = 0` in your `app.toml` before resuming operations.

```shell
   git clone https://github.com/irisnet/irishub.git
```

## Step 2: Build and start the v3.1.0 binary

### Remember to revert `iris` configurations

* Reset `halt-height = 0` option in the `app.toml` or
* Remove it from start parameters of the iris binary before restarting the node

We recommend you perform a backup of your data directory before switching to `v3.1.0`.

```shell
cd $HOME/irishub
git pull
git fetch --tags
git checkout v3.1.0
make install

# verify install
iris version
# v3.1.0
```

```shell
iris start # starts the v3.1.0 node
```

## Cosmovisor steps

## Prerequisite: Alter systemd service configuration

Disable automatic restart of the node service. To do so please alter your `iris.service` file configuration and set appropriate lines to following values.

```bash
Restart=no 

Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=false"
Environment="DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=false"
```

After that, you will need to run `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` to apply changes in the service configuration.

There is no need to restart the node yet; these changes will get applied during the node restart in the next step.

## Setup Cosmovisor

### Create the updated iris binary of v3.1.0

### Remember to revert `iris` configurations

* Reset `halt-height = 0` option in the `app.toml` or
* Remove it from start parameters of the iris binary before starting the node

#### Go to iris directory if present, else clone the repository

```shell
   git clone https://github.com/irisnet/irishub.git
```

#### Follow these steps if iris repo already present

```shell
   cd $HOME/irishub
   git pull
   git fetch --tags
   git checkout v3.1.0
   make install
```

#### Check the new iris version, verify the latest commit hash

```shell
   $ iris version --long
   name: iris
   server_name: iris
   version: 3.1.0
   commit: <commit-hash>
   ...
```

### Copy the new iris (v3.1.0) binary to cosmovisor current directory

```shell
   cp $GOPATH/bin/iris ~/.iris/cosmovisor/current/bin
```

### Restore service file settings

If you are using a service file, restore the previous `Restart` settings in your service file:

```bash
Restart=On-failure 
```

Reload the service control `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`.

## Revert `iris` configurations

Depending on which path you chose for Step 1, either:

* Reset `halt-height = 0` option in the `app.toml` or
* Remove it from start parameters of the iris binary and start node again
